### Comment on Definition of Topology

According to Lee's *Introduction to Topological Manifolds*, the main idea behind the current definition of *topology* is the open-subset criterion for continuity: It provides a simple way to detect continuous maps knowing only the open subsets of both spaces, unburdened by extraneous details.
Aside from that, choosing open subsets allows one to qualitatively work with "nearness" of elements of a space instead of using purely quantitative measures like the Euclidean distance in Euclidean space, which may be cumbersome or insufficient for our purposes.
We simply put the open subset $A \subseteq X$ containing $x$ to be the neighborhood of $x$, and something is "near" $x$ if it is in every neighborhood of $x$.
Depending on which topology we choose with respect to whatever viewpoint we want to adopt, $\mathcal T_1$ or $\mathcal T_2$, our "nearness" becomes qualitatively different.
According to Brown's *Topology and Groupoids*, topological spaces may be axiomatized in terms of other structures: Closed sets, closure, interior, the relation $A \subseteq \operatorname{Int} B$, etc.
These axiomatizations are entirely equivalent to the open-set axiomatization.

### Contemplation on the Concept of a Basis

Clearly the notion of a basis in Linear Algebra and Topology has some things in common and some things very distinct.  At least one author of a Linear Algebra text took unique representability to be the definition of a basis, whereas there is no such property for a basis for a topology as Munkres comments.  Any given topology can be generated by distinct bases, and probably more apt for the analogy, in a given basis a given open set can (I believe) be generated by distinct choices of basis "elements".  But the two notions do share the idea that in a sense a given basis is "the minimal collection of stuff needed to put things together in a natural way, in order to recover the whole space of stuff".

(By the way, is anybody else a little uneasy with the terminology of "basis element" when the basis is itself a set?  I know sets can be elements, of course, but in using this vocabulary I always have to spend a second getting my barings straight about whether the element is an element of the topology or an element out of the set of basis elements.  I think I would prefer the phrase "a base" to talk about some "basis element".)
